docs: Terraform RBAC Tutorial (#20976)
MaterializeInc/materialize: doc/user/content/manage/access-control/rbac-terraform-tutorial.md

---
title: "Tutorial: Manage privileges with Terraform"
description: "Add users, create roles, and assign privileges in Materialize with Terraform"
menu:
  main:
    parent: access-control
    weight: 25
---

{{< private-preview />}}

This tutorial walks you through managing roles in Materialize with [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/). By the end of this tutorial you will:

* Create two new roles in your Materialize
* Apply privileges to the new roles
* Assign a role to a user
* Modify and remove privileges on roles

> In this scenario, you are an DevOps engineer responsible for managing your Materialize account with code. You recently hired a new developer who needs privileges in a non-production cluster. You will create specific privileges for the new role that align with your business needs and restrict the developer role from having access to your production cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this scenario, you are a DevOps engineer responsible for managing your Materialize account with code. You recently hired a new developer who needs privileges in a non-production cluster. You will create specific privileges for the new role that align with your business needs and restrict the developer role from having access to your production cluster.
```

## Before you begin

* Make sure you have a [Materialize account](https://materialize.com/register/?utm_campaign=General&utm_source=documentation) and already have a password to connect with.

* You should be familiar with setting up a [Terraform project in Materialize](https://materialize.com/docs/manage/terraform/).

* Have an understanding of permissions in Materialize. These grant resources in this tutorial are modeled after the [access-control tutorial](https://materialize.com/docs/manage/access-control/rbac-tutorial/).

## Step 1. Create Role

> 1. A role is a collection of privileges you can apply to users. First we will create a role resource in Terraform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A role is a collection of privileges you can apply to users. First, we will create a role resource in Terraform.
```

    ```hcl
    resource "materialize_role" "dev_role" {
      name = "dev_role"
    }
    ```

2. We will run Terraform to create this role.

    ```shell
    terraform apply
    ```

    {{< note >}}

>     All of the resources in this tutorial can be run with a single `terraform apply` but we will add and apply resources incrementally to better illustrate grants.

Reviewer 2: Don't know why (it is a bug) but removing one tab here formats the text correctly and not as if it was code:

```
    {{< note >}}
  All of the resources in this tutorial can be run with a single terraform apply but we will add and apply resources incrementally to better illustrate grants.
    {{</ note >}}
```

    resource "materialize_cluster_replica" "cluster_replica" {
      name         = "devr1"
      cluster_name = materialize_cluster.cluster.name
      size         = "3xsmall"
    }

    resource "materialize_database" "database" {
      name = "dev_db"
    }

    resource "materialize_schema" "schema" {
      name          = "schema"
      database_name = materialize_database.database.name
    }

    resource "materialize_table" "table" {
      name          = "dev_table"
      schema_name   = materialize_schema.schema.name
      database_name = materialize_database.database.name

      column {
        name = "a"
        type = "int"
      }
      column {
        name     = "b"
        type     = "text"
        nullable = true
      }
    }
    ```

2. We will apply our Terraform project again to create the object resources.

    ```shell
    terraform apply
    ```

3. Now that our resources exist, we can query their privileges before they have been associated with our role created in step 1.

    ```sql
    SELECT name, privileges FROM mz_tables WHERE name = 'dev_table';
    ```

    ```nofmt
    name|privileges
    dev_table|{u1=arwd/u1,u8=arw/u1}
    (1 row)
    ```

> Currently the `dev_role` does not have any permissions on the table `dev_table`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the `dev_role` has no permissions on the table `dev_table`.
```

> ### Step 3. Grant privileges on example objects

Reviewer 2: From Step 3. to Step 6. it has an additional `#` 
```suggestion
## Step 3. Grant privileges on example objects
```

* All available privileges on the database
* Usage and create privileges on the cluster

1. We will add the following resources to our Terraform project.

    ```hcl
    resource "materialize_table_grant" "dev_role_table_grant_select" {
      role_name     = materialize_role.dev_role.name
      privilege     = "SELECT"
      database_name = materialize_table.table.database_name
      schema_name   = materialize_table.table.schema_name
      table_name    = materialize_table.table.name
    }

    resource "materialize_table_grant" "dev_role_table_grant_insert" {
      role_name     = materialize_role.dev_role.name
      privilege     = "INSERT"
      database_name = materialize_table.table.database_name
      schema_name   = materialize_table.table.schema_name
      table_name    = materialize_table.table.name
    }

    resource "materialize_table_grant" "dev_role_table_grant_update" {
      role_name     = materialize_role.dev_role.name
      privilege     = "UPDATE"
      database_name = materialize_table.table.database_name
      schema_name   = materialize_table.table.schema_name
      table_name    = materialize_table.table.name
    }
    ```

    {{< note >}}

>     All of the grant resources are a 1:1 between a specific role, object and privilege. So adding three privileges to the `dev_role` will require three Terraform resources. 

Reviewer 2: The same as the other note.
